 In today's episode of The Daily Brief, I'll talk about two interesting stories.
 I first talk about a temperature check for India's two-wheeler EVs.
 And finally, I talk about the economics behind quality control orders.
 Welcome back to The Daily Brief show by Zeruda, where our aim is to simplify the biggest news
 in the financial markets in a way that's one level deeper as compared to news channels.
 I'm your host Akshara and today is Monday, 24th November.
 Coming to the first story, it's hard to overstate how important two-wheelers are to India.
 We're the world's largest maker for two-wheelers and these humble vehicles define how hundreds of
 millions of us move, work and earn a living. They're so crucial to our way of life that
 the demand for two-wheelers is often used as a proxy for rural India's economic growth.
 So when we began making our transition to electric vehicles, two-wheelers were the obvious
 category to begin with. As we covered in our last story on Ola and Aether, India's two-wheeler EV
 market went from hardly existing in 2020 to becoming the world's second largest in 2025,
 crossing 8% penetration. But this sector is in flux. A lot has happened in the last quarter alone,
 from China choking our imports of critical supplies to potential technological breakthroughs
 to shifts in government policy. These few months have been a stress test for our
 electric two-wheeler ambitions. So we'll be looking at the latest quarterly results of four
 companies, Ola Electric, Aether, Bajaj and TVS, to see how the sector has been navigating various
 speedbreakers and how the road ahead looks for them. Let's start with how each company fared
 this quarter. Aether sold approximately 65,600 units up 67% year-on-year to record sales worth
 rupees 941 crore. It increased its market share from 12.1% last year to 17.4% this year. While the
 company isn't profitable yet, it's burning less money than before, with a bit our margins improving
 to approximately 10% from approximately 21% a year ago. Ola Electric sold 52,666 vehicles,
 nearly half the sales from the same time last year. That meant they lost some market share to
 their peers. However, for the first time, Ola recorded a positive EBITDA of approximately 0.3%
 potentially because of extensive cost cutting. Briefly, these two companies were synonymous
 with India's electric two-wheeler industry. But even as they were still burning cash to create a
 market, the legacy players Bajaj and TBS have thrown their hats into the ring. TBS Motor recently
 became the market leader in this segment and last quarter it furthered its lead. This was its best
 ever quarter of EV sales and its best quarter as a whole with a record quarterly opening revenue of
 rupees 11,095 crore, which translated into a profit before tax of rupees 1266 crore.
 Across categories, it sold approximately 15 lakh vehicles in the last quarter,
 of which 80,000, roughly 5.3% were EV scooters. Think about what that means. 5% of their business
 this quarter surpassed the quarterly volumes of Ola and Aether each. Now, Bajaj Auto didn't break
 down its EV numbers in particular, although it did mention that EVs are their fastest growing
 segment. Overall, however, it had a great quarter as well. It sold 12.94 lakh vehicles in total
 with both EBITDA margins at 20.5% and revenue of rupees 14,922 crore touching all-time highs.
 As we've written before, China has thrown up barriers to our imports of rare earth magnets
 and as any 10th grade physics textbook would tell you, magnets help us turn electricity into movement.
 If they're no longer in supply, EV makers feel the squeeze. Each company has handled this squeeze
 differently. Curiously, all our claims will move to the fastest. By October, it created a new traction
 motor which eliminates their air earth dependency entirely. Now, this is a bold claim and one that
 deserves a deeper dive. See, there are two types of magnets relevant for vehicles. First are rare
 earth magnets. These are made of things like neodymium and are powerful, compact, heat resistant,
 making them ideal for EVs. Only, China has a strong hold on these. Then, there are ferrite magnets,
 or to put it simply, magnets made of iron compounds. This is an older way of making magnets and has
 been used in all sorts of products. Now, these are far cheaper than rare earths. Crucially though,
 these are usually much weaker, heavier and less heat resistant than rare earth equivalents.
 One could use a ferrite motor in an EV. Tesla has, for instance. But how do you get the same
 power as you would in a rare earth-driven EV? Apparently, Ola has achieved this,
 optimizing its magnetic circuits and making designed tweaks to squeeze out more power from its motor.
 This, Ola claims, helped its ferrite motors match the performance of rare earth motors in the 7kW
 and 11kW power classes. That's plausible, but it's a bold technical claim and it might
 involve trade-offs that aren't obvious just yet. That claim will be tested over time as its vehicles
 are used over the years, handling heat and heavy loads in Indian conditions. If, and that's a really
 big if, this holds up in real-world use, it'll be a massive breakthrough. Then comes Aether,
 which seems to have taken a more measured approach. The company has shifted away from heavy rare earth
 magnets, the ones China controls most tightly, but that doesn't mean its alternatives don't have any
 rare earths. Only, they have light rare earths and avoid elements like dyspropium and terbium.
 These heavier elements handle high temperatures better and prevent the magnet from losing power
 when it heats up. And so, Aether's alternatives cut supply chain risk, but that might come at
 the cost of some efficiency, especially at high temperatures. In fact, Aether acknowledged this
 as a short-term stopgap while continuing research on long-term solutions. The company also deferred
 Rs 26.2 crore of state incentives due to supply chain disruptions. Now, the other two didn't
 specify how they managed to squeeze. Bajaj Auto bluntly accepted that the lack of magnets damaged
 their business, but they were positive about the resilience of their business and the industry
 as a whole in the face of a disruption. While their flagship Chetak series took a hit, they
 eventually recovered and did so earlier than they anticipated. The management of TVS similarly said
 that the industry would have done much, much bigger numbers if magnets were available.
 Now, supply chains weren't the only big force reshaping competition this quarter. Government
 policy, specifically who gets subsidies and the recent GST cuts, changed the industry's landscape
 as well. Let's start with the PLI scheme, which gives out 13-18% of EV sales value as cashback
 to companies that meet strict investment conditions. Last quarter, that money made a lot of difference,
 both to those who got it and to those who didn't. Bajaj Auto was a big beneficiary this quarter.
 They could potentially claim Rs 630 crore in PLI incentives this year, the highest among all
 automakers, four-wheelers included. The company had submitted 13 PLI applications for different
 Chetak models and got all of them approved. This helped boost their margins from the vehicle.
 In August, Ola secured PLI certification for its entire Gen 3 scooter lineup through 2028.
 By September, it filed a claim for Rs 380 crore based on approximately Rs 3000 crore
 in eligible FY25 sales. But interestingly, PLI incentives made up a very small chunk of their
 positive EBITDA margins. It's possible that they'll only receive those disbursements in the future.
 TVS started booking PLI benefits in Q4 FY25 after completing compliance audits. In fact,
 it may claim approximately Rs 330 crore for FY25. This has led to a 0.5% improvement in
 the margin since last year. But interestingly, while TVS, Bajaj and Ola benefited, Aether got
 shut out. Despite being India's second largest TV maker, Aether didn't qualify for the PLI scheme.
 This lack of support forced them to delay new product launches, putting them at a disadvantage
 against their peers. September's GST reforms cut rates on petrol two-wheelers under 350 cc
 from 28% to 18%. The rate on EVs, meanwhile, remained flat at 5% GST. This increased the
 price gap between the two, making EVs relatively less cost attractive just as the festive buying
 season was opening. But EV makers aren't worried, not yet at least. Even though ICE vehicles become
 more attractive, the demand for EV two-wheelers held strong, with industry-wide e-scooter sales
 hitting an all-time high of 1.44 lakh units this October. Crucially, EVs are usually cheaper to
 run over their lifetime since electricity is cheaper than fuel. Ideally, a 7% reduction in
 petrol bike prices might not change that equation much. Even so, in the short term,
 EV companies may be under some pressure to respond. Aether, for instance, expects some
 short-term defensive pricing or discounts to prop up sales.
 As volumes grow, however, two bottlenecks are becoming clearer, charging access and service
 networks. These gaps are becoming increasingly important as the market matures. EV charging
 infrastructure currently is very fragmented. Most EV two-wheeler buyers charge their vehicles at home
 overnight on a standard 15 amp socket. But while that works for personal use,
 delivery fleets and commercial riders need fast charging throughout the day. And each company
 has its own proprietary network to solve that problem, like the Aether grid or Ola's hypercharger
 stations. But none of these chargers can talk to each other. For example, a Aether can't use an
 Ola charger. Until standards emerge, each company's charging network remains a walled garden. This
 artificially restricts the scale of the overall infrastructure. But there is another alternative
 to charging these vehicles. You can instead swap their battery with charged ones.
 But the same bottleneck lies there too. Each company has different battery sizes and designs.
 A few pilot projects are testing this possibility with three-wheelers,
 but there are no such projects for scooters. These companies are also running into problems with
 after-sales service. This has been a pain point for Ola in particular. The company admitted that
 it faces a backlog larger than the typical post monsoon spike, other OEMCs. Its parts are in
 short supply and it doesn't have enough technicians to handle the load. To make after-sales service
 faster, the company launched Hyperservice, where third-party garages can service their vehicles
 with access to original parts. This is becoming an especially large problem because, increasingly,
 they're competing with legacy players with decades of experience. Companies like TCS or Bajaj can
 just use their existing service network and adapt it for the EV age instead of building from scratch.
 Bajaj, for instance, has 390 Chetak exclusive stores and 4000 plus retail points. Coverage
 that a startup will find very hard to build immediately. Last quarter and the record October
 that followed proved that India's EV two-wheeler market can stand its own ground. But even as
 customers have taken to EVs, the competition has changed. In a more mature market, old-school factors,
 supply chain resilience, margin discipline and network scale are becoming more salient.
 This is no longer a sunrise industry. It is, increasingly, a mature business and that changes
 what you must do to survive within it. Now coming to the second story. As we saw in our last edition
 since late October, the Indian government announced a rollback of various quality control orders or
 QCOs across sectors like metals, chemicals and textiles. On the surface, this doesn't look like a
 big deal. The name quality control order suggests that these were simply meant to keep the quality
 of goods high. India's MSMEs though are celebrating this move as a massive improvement in the ease
 of doing business. So why is something that sounds so harmless elicited such a strong reaction?
 So according to our small businesses, this doesn't merely reduce paperwork.
 They believe that after a long time, doing business in India might structurally get better
 because QCOs aren't mere quality standards. They're a policy tool meant to achieve certain
 economic ends. They represent a certain philosophy that the Indian government has operated with
 and like any other policy, they come with trade-offs. They help those that make raw materials
 at the cost of those that use them. We've previously covered similar trade-offs with tariffs on steel
 where protecting steel makers can make sectors which use steel like cars or electronics
 less competitive. QCOs amplify this dynamic across dozens of sectors. So let's dive in.
 First, a fundamental question. How do QCOs work? So QCOs are legal requirements issued by ministries
 in consultation with the Bureau of Indian Standards or BIS. They mandate that certain
 products have to meet specific quality standards before anyone can manufacture, import or sell them
 in India. For instance, take toys. Since 2021, the BIS has set many standards for toys covering
 various safety aspects, sharp edges, small part hazards, flammability and so on. The idea is that
 these are products for kids and therefore require extra care. On paper, QCOs are justified by this
 kind of public interest. Now, that might sound reasonable. Only there's just one way of showing
 that one complies with those standards. One must have their goods tested and certified by BIS recognized
 labs. It's only after such certification that you can offer products in the Indian market.
 These procedures can be painstaking, requiring immense paperwork and stringent factory inspections.
 In all, this can sometimes take seven to eight months. Some of this is by design,
 because while QCOs are framed as consumer protection tools, they have historically
 served a different purpose. So in practice, India's QCOs function less as narrow consumer safety
 regulation and more as industrial policy. While high standards might sound like a good thing,
 in the case of QCOs, they're accompanied by high compliance costs. Those costs can be used to
 protect domestic industry by making certain imports costlier or harder to obtain. Imagine
 you ran a small low margin business out of China and were looking for international customers.
 If your products come under a QCO, in order to sell in India, you would first have to pay
 various types of fees to apply for a license, to obtain the ISI mark, to have your factory
 audited and more. Then you would have to pay to host BIS inspectors in your home country from
 their airfare to accommodation to a per DM fee. And then you would have to pay to have your samples
 sent to an Indian laboratory for inspection. All of this would be time consuming and would take
 mountains of paperwork. On paper, your Indian competitors would have the same requirements,
 but complying with them is much easier in practice. Unless your margins from Indian sales
 make up for all this, you simply avoid the Indian market. Domestic producers can then scale up to
 fill the gap. Under the garb of quality control, you can essentially block imports. In fact, since
 2018, we've increased our usage of QCOs by over 10 times, just as we kicked off the Make in India
 initiative, while seemingly also prioritizing the BIS approval of domestic suppliers more
 than foreign firms. Toys are a classic example. Facing an influx of low-cost Chinese toys,
 India imposed strict BIS standards starting in 2020. The move was explicitly aimed at reducing
 import dependence and boosting domestic manufacturing. As a result, India's toy imports
 plunged from $319 million in 2018 to just $40 million in 2021. But that's just a single industry.
 We have QCOs across innumerable sectors, chemicals, synthetic fibers, steel alloys,
 plastics, electronic components, machinery parts, you name it. But India is hardly the only one to
 use such measures. Other countries have their own version of QCOs. In international trade lingo,
 these are called non-tariff barriers or NTBs, and they've often been used to skirt international
 trade law. A tariff hike by placing a clear numerical disadvantage on imports can easily
 become the subject of a complaint at the World Trade Organization or WTO. However, a QCO which
 is far more subjective can be defended as a technical regulation rather than a protectionist
 measure, and so countries can get away more easily with NTBs.
 There are two basic rationales for such a measure. The first, more basic one, is that you keep your
 own market for your companies to profit from. A longer term hope ideally is that as these companies
 grow and gain experience, they become competitive enough to export. So, does this work? Only
 partially. The Think Tank CSEP finds that imports decline by 24% in the long term after a QCO is
 imposed, and the decline is even higher for intermediate goods. When it comes to suppressing
 imports, QCOs clearly work. However, QCOs are not nearly as effective in powering exports.
 Interestingly, this doesn't play out in an entirely straightforward manner.
 In the first year of a QCO, India's exports actually pick up by 10.6%. But then, weirdly
 enough, they seem to decline by 12.8% in the second quarter. Over time, the CSEP concludes,
 QCOs don't lead to any sustainable gain in exports. Now, let's get back to the toy industry.
 Although QCOs successfully limited our toy imports, our exports growth was fairly measly.
 From $131.5 million in 2019 to $167 million in 2024, a CAGR of less than 5% a year.
 So, while falling imports gave us a trade surplus, we didn't see the industry go through an export
 boom. And there are more such examples. India's man-made fibre textile exports to major markets
 fell or stagnated after input QCOs, while competitors like Vietnam saw their textile
 exports rise. QCOs are also why India's share of global footwear exports have actually fallen.
 All of this, incidentally, was in the midst of the supposed China plus one wave.
 So, why have export gains proven to be so elusive, especially in an era where global
 conditions were supposed to be ripe for them? So, QCOs effectively increased the costs for our
 manufacturers. Many QCOs are directed at raw and intermediate goods rather than finished goods.
 This becomes a bottleneck for industries that require such goods, especially if there's little
 domestic capacity for them. QCOs on polyester fibres, for instance, choked supplies for our
 textile mills. Similarly, restrictions on high-grade steel forced factories to operate below capacity.
 Even if there is domestic capacity, without international competition, producers of raw
 material face less price pressure and often change more. In some QCO-affected sectors like
 yarns and specialty steels, domestic prices rose 15-30% above world levels. This puts finished
 Indian products at a huge cost disadvantage in global markets. The very move intended to improve
 India's competitiveness, it seems, often undercut it by making key inputs costlier.
 But QCOs don't only burden foreign companies. They're mandatory for Indian companies too.
 Each QCO means additional compliance, testing fees, certification charges and long waiting times
 for approval. And while Indian companies may have an easier time of meeting those requirements than
 someone abroad, there's still a barrier to doing business. This burden falls heaviest on small
 firms who have repeatedly complained that QCOs were raising entry barriers and costs.
 Now, large companies have the resources to meet strict standards. They can invest in testing
 labs, hire consultants and absorb delays. But small firms simply find it difficult to do so.
 For instance, certification costs alone can be as high as Rs 10,000-15,000 per consignment.
 Delays of over half a year too can become too onerous for small businesses.
 So, curiously, not only do QCOs privilege Indian companies over foreign ones,
 they also privilege large companies over small ones. This has led to increased market
 concentration in QCO hit industries. And this is why, recently, a high-level
 government committee led by Niti Ayog was set up to look into this problem.
 Thankfully though, there has lately been a genuine rethink on QCOs. After years of ratcheting up
 quality barriers, the government seems to have hit its biggest pause in a while. The suspension of
 QCOs is expected to ease access to raw materials and reduce supply bottlenecks. And this might only
 be the start. In October 2025, the Niti Ayog-led panel recommended scrapping or suspending over
 200 QCOs, mostly those on intermediate inputs. The committee urged that new quality orders
 be limited strictly to products with genuine safety or environmental risks.
 Externally, as we covered in our trade story yesterday, India is in a difficult trade
 environment, especially as the United States closes its market. Putting up further barriers would
 make life for MSMEs a lot harder. And India has likely recognized that we need to moderate our
 usage of NTBs to secure better market access in return. Of course, not everyone is happy with
 the loosening. Some large domestic producers who benefited from the insulated market are worried.
 India's biggest steel makers, for example, fear that lifting steel QCOs could open the
 floodgates to cheaper Chinese imports, pressuring their prices. But the trade-offs the government
 increasingly seems to think are no longer worth it. Now coming to the tidbits. Reliance has stopped
 importing Russian crude into its Jamnagar refinery from November 20th, ahead of new USU sanctions on
 Rosneft and Lucoil. From December 1st, all exported fuels will be made only from non-Russian crude.
 The last Russian cargo was lifted on November 12th, and any arrivals after November 20th will be
 processed only in the domestic tariff area. Europe, 28% of reliance's exports will require
 fully compliant cargos. Coming to the next tidbit. The SFIO has begun investigating reliance
 communications for the period FY 2009 to 2024, adding to an ongoing ED probe into a legit diversion
 of Rs. 13,600 crore and $569 million in Yes Bank loans. The ED has already frozen Rs. 8,901 crore
 in assets linked to the Anilambani Group. Reliance Groups said the actions do not
 affect reliance's infra or reliance power. Coming to the final tidbit. India's banks have
 crossed an 80.21% credit deposit ratio above the Avias Comfort Band, driven by sluggish deposit
 growth 9.7% and stronger credit demand 11.3%. With deposit mobilisation lagging, banks may have to
 raise rates again. Economists say the ratio will stay elevated as loan demand rises and deposits
 continue shifting to mutual funds. You can check out all the links in the description below.
